README.md, before:

# Lod

Lod is a static site generator (SSG) with zero configuration.

It lets you write plain old HTML and gradually use layouts, preprocessed CSS and ES6 JavaScript just by referencing them from HTML.  

No boilerplate is required.  
Lod just needs an `index.html` entry file.

The output build will be optimized, minified an ready to deploy.

- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
	- [Build](#build)
	- [Watch and serve](#watch-and-serve)
- [Content types](#content-types)
	- [HTML](#html)
		- [Layout](#layout)
		- [Data](#data)
	- [Styles](#styles)
	- [Scripts](#scripts)
	- [Others](#others)

## Install

```
$ go get github.com/alefunion/lod
```

## Usage

### Build

Go to the project's root directory, write an `index.html` file and run `lod`:

```
$ lod
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⚡️ SSG in 12ms
```

### Watch and serve

The `watch` or `w` subcommand makes Lod watch for changes and generate a new build when required:

```
$ lod w
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⚡️ SSG in 12ms
2021/12/12 12:12:12 🌐 Served at http://localhost:8080
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⏳ Watching for changes...
```

At the same time, a file server is run over the output directory.  
You can provide another address to listen on, just after the `watch` subcommand:

```
$ lod watch :3000
```

## Content types

### HTML

HTML files are handled as Go templates and can start with a front matter.

#### Layout

A layout is an HTML file containing a named `block` (used as a placeholder):

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Example</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		{{ block "main" . }}{{ end }}
	</body>
</html>
```

To use a layout, start the HTML file with a frontmatter containing and a `layout` key referencing the layout file, relative to project's root:

```html
---
layout: layout.html
---

{{define "main"}}
	<h1>Example</h1>
	<p>Lorem ipsum.</p>
{{end}}
```

Layouts can also be nested.

#### Data

Frontmatter's content can be accessed inside the HTML body. It is also passed to layouts:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Example{{ if .title }} – {{ .title }}{{ end }}</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>{{ .title }}</h1>
		{{ block "main" . }}{{ end }}
	</body>
</html>
```

```html
---
layout: layout.html
title: Test
---

{{define "main"}}
	<p>{{ .title }} page</p>
{{end}}
```

### Styles

CSS files are automatically minified and bundled.  
Same for Sass/Scss files for which the compiler is built in.  
Just reference the file in the HTML:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.scss" />
```

### Scripts

JS and TS files are automatically minified and bundled.  
As they are handled by [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io), you can use the latest syntax, like ES6 imports.

```html
<script src="scripts/main.js"></script>
```

### Others

Other content types are copied as is with a hashed filename.

Commit message:

Fix Sass assets filepaths not relative to working directory

README.md, after:

# Lod

Lod is a static site generator (SSG) with zero configuration.

It lets you write plain old HTML and gradually use layouts, preprocessed CSS and ES6 JavaScript just by referencing them from HTML.  

No boilerplate is required.  
Lod just needs an `index.html` entry file.

The output build will be optimized, minified an ready to deploy.

- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
	- [Build](#build)
	- [Watch and serve](#watch-and-serve)
- [Content types](#content-types)
	- [HTML](#html)
		- [Layout](#layout)
		- [Data](#data)
	- [Styles](#styles)
	- [Scripts](#scripts)
	- [Others](#others)

## Install

```
$ go get github.com/alefunion/lod
```

## Usage

### Build

Go to the project's root directory, write an `index.html` file and run `lod`:

```
$ lod
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⚡️ SSG in 12ms
```

### Watch and serve

The `watch` or `w` subcommand makes Lod watch for changes and generate a new build when required:

```
$ lod w
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⚡️ SSG in 12ms
2021/12/12 12:12:12 🌐 Served at http://localhost:8080
2021/12/12 12:12:12 ⏳ Watching for changes...
```

At the same time, a file server is run over the output directory.  
You can provide another address to listen on, just after the `watch` subcommand:

```
$ lod watch :3000
```

## Content types

### HTML

HTML files are handled as Go templates and can start with a front matter.

#### Layout

A layout is an HTML file containing a named `block` (used as a placeholder):

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Example</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		{{ block "main" . }}{{ end }}
	</body>
</html>
```

To use a layout, start the HTML file with a frontmatter containing and a `layout` key referencing the layout file, relative to project's root:

```html
---
layout: layout.html
---

{{define "main"}}
	<h1>Example</h1>
	<p>Lorem ipsum.</p>
{{end}}
```

Layouts can also be nested.

#### Data

Frontmatter's content can be accessed inside the HTML body. It is also passed to layouts:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Example{{ if .title }} – {{ .title }}{{ end }}</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>{{ .title }}</h1>
		{{ block "main" . }}{{ end }}
	</body>
</html>
```

```html
---
layout: layout.html
title: Test
---

{{define "main"}}
	<p>{{ .title }} page</p>
{{end}}
```

### Styles

CSS files are automatically minified and bundled.  
Same for Sass/Scss files for which the compiler is built in.  
Just reference the file in the HTML:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.scss" />
```

As inside HTML, filepaths of assets referenced in style files must be relative to project's directory.

### Scripts

JS and TS files are automatically minified and bundled.  
As they are handled by [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io), you can use the latest syntax, like ES6 imports.

```html
<script src="scripts/main.js"></script>
```

### Others

Other content types are copied as is with a hashed filename.
